hello
and welcome to the first and possibly
the final
installment of what i'm calling james
tries stuff for the first time today i'm
going to use whatever tools i can find
just laying around to make the most
pointless pc gaming setup possible
hey look
what are these doing here three 49-inch
32x9 gaming monitors each one of these
is designed to be an elegant stand-alone
solution for achieving both the
productivity and gaming benefits usually
reserved for double or even triple
monitor setups
but hey i'm super naive why not connect
all three of them to create a 180 degree
semicircle
of pixel paradise
builds dot gg is at it again with the
stock cooling showdown up to four
thousand dollars and hardware prizes are
up for grabs for the most highly voted
systems and for people who simply vote
click the link below to join
[Music]
welcome back step one is to get a
computer particularly one that has
enough video out ports to connect one to
one to each of your three monitors now
it is possible to go from
one display port to like a hub where you
split off to other displayport cables
that might be possible depending on the
resolution of your monitors but it's
always better to have a dedicated cable
especially considering that displayport
is pretty janky at the best of times
i'm also using the highest quality
cables that i could find because the
displayport spec actually is only built
around
a cable length of 3 meters which is
about
precisely 9.8 feet
so if you're going to go beyond that
which you may well do considering that
if you're using monitors this wide end
to end they're like 10 feet
if you need to go beyond 9.8 feet with a
displayport cable the longer the cable
the higher quality they should be for
our computer we're going to be using a
corsair one pro
because it has an rtx 2080 ti inside
which i know is capable of pushing all
the pixels i need to these giant
displays so that's just one less thing
to screw me over the next thing you need
is a bunch of monitors now ideally you
would be using three identical monitors
at least with the same resolution
and the same aspect ratio but it does
help if they're actually the same naked
model because then they're gonna have
the same sync polarity and more uniform
colors across all of it we don't have
that here today what we have although
these are
each of them 32 by 9 49-inch monitors
there are three different brands we've
got an lg a dell
and a samsung behind me
the samsung has a resolution of 3840 by
1080 and a refresh rate of 144 hertz
while the other two although they do
share the same lg made panel which is a
bonus
they have a resolution of 5120 by 1440
and a refresh rate of 60 hertz so we
we're just gonna have to find out if
this mishmash
screws us in the end the first thing i'm
noticing here is that
this is kind of stupid
[Laughter]
these are already so wide
that i don't know if it would be
practical for basically anybody's
workflow to have them arranged like this
the other thing i'm thinking about here
is
the keyboard and mouse okay if i'm over
here
it's a little awkward especially if
these were turned in more and i was more
surrounded it would be a little weird to
be typing over here and cranking my neck
this way i got an idea
okay so
i found some scraps
extruded aluminum that we had from 16k
gaming and i've never used this stuff
before but alex said it's pretty easy to
work with
yeah
okay now
for the ps3 resistance
that's more like it now that our setup
is completely ridiculous let's try
actually gaming
follow me
okay so you'll see we're only using one
third of our potential girth here so
that's no good go into the settings the
resolution 5120 by 1440 is the
resolution of one of these if i go into
windowed mode nope no option to do that
okay i think it's time we opened the
nvidia control panel okay so the point
of surround is to make your computer
think that you have just one monitor
with one resolution okay let's play it
safe and start with just two of our
monitors
one by two
we'll pick the lg
and the dell so 10
240 pixels
that's the width of those two screens
it's created one combined resolution
because it's gonna treat it like it's
one monitor
very cool so let's see if we can get it
to do that with all three monitors
we're gonna change our topology to one
by three
select every monitor including the
samsung okay so i was expecting
what like twelve thousand
this is fifty seven sixty by ten eighty
uh if i go to calculator
and divide that by three monitors
1920. it's treating this like each one
of these is 1920 by 1080.
i think it's because
you're not allowed to mix and match
resolutions
so
i mean we can try this wow
stretch city okay this is kind of cool
and immersive um
it's not working properly
but
i don't think it's because of the 1920
surround error thing i think it's
because this game is just not meant to
do this see how it gets really stretched
out on the sides like that car
and the car looks really close when i go
like this it looks a lot farther away
and that's because this game is
rendering with only one camera position
games that are meant to be played like
this they're going to render from
multiple camera positions and then the
result is gonna be that teammates don't
look like that
oh boy
good god
good gravy
can i knife people in this game
okay okay
let's get out of here what if
i
forced all these to be the same
resolution so
one way i could do that which would suck
would be to just run my high-res ones at
a lower res so i'd run them all at 38.40
by 1080.
that's not that cool
because why did i buy
or have sent to this company higher res
monitors so instead
we're going to try to super sample the
low res one to render as though it is
5120 by 1440. there are some drawbacks
even if you can get surround to work
like let's say i had monitors that were
all the same and surround worked for me
and it was awesome
there's still some drawbacks because it
makes it seem like it's all one monitor
which is not ideal when you're not
gaming if i'm just using my desktop and
it's treated like one monitor then when
i go to maximize one of my windows for
example you're gonna have like a windows
explorer
window that's just like
eight feet of white and it's not easy
to just
place
a window on only one monitor for example
and like your clock's going to be way
over there while your windows start menu
is way over there
for that reason a lot of people who game
with surround on will actually turn it
off when they're not gaming and then
turn it back on when they go to game
again
which sucks because it actually takes
anywhere between one and five minutes to
get it all configured every time now a
lot of these problems can be mitigated
or outright solved by using software
like ultraman or display fusion which is
way better because then you can just
stay in surround mode all the time and
not have to go back into the display
settings like i have to right now and
move stuff around okay let's see if this
worked i go into my windows display
settings
i now have a new resolution
for my crappy monitor my crappy thousand
dollar awesome monitor
so now we're gonna go back into surround
and see if we can get the coveted 15 360
horizontal pixel resolution that we were
looking for no
ah
there's just no there's no making it
work you can't even trick it but who
cares because we still might be able to
get the result we want sure it's not
going to be exclusive full screen in our
games we'll take a slight performance
hit but we can still have lots of fun so
let's try some other games that are
designed to be used in setups like this
i'm going to look at
a list of games that are actually known
to work with widescreen far cry 5 we
have that one this intro sequence is a
far cry from being enjoyable options
video
aspect ratio custom window mode
windowed all the way
all the way
oh whoa
no
okay now i think i'm going to try just
running the benchmark because i don't
want to get caught in the 20 minutes of
cutscenes this game starts with
nice
those hay bales aren't really even
stretched yeah they're closer
but it's not super distorted
things look proportional
this is pretty dank i don't have to look
over there but having it there is more
immersive all right enough far cry now i
want to try a racing game naturally
i heard that project cars 2 is pretty
good for this kind of thing so
options
holy cow look at this i don't even have
to go into video there's a button
specifically saying triple screen
configure your settings to match your
triple screen setup hell yeah triple
screen spanning
check these are probably wrong but i'm
gonna say that's fine
okay
and again
you can see on the text of toyota it's
not stretched out right
okay this is pretty sweet
oh look one hand wow man that rear view
mirror is like the same size as my
actual rear view mirror in my car this
is like
almost life-size this is pretty cool
and just like real life i go the wrong
way okay this was a pretty stupid setup
but i still learned a few things number
one if you're into
widescreen surround gaming then make
sure that the games you want to play
actually support it because it really
comes down to the games more than
anything
if you're into racing games and flight
sims then you're probably good to go and
i think more and more
regular mainstream shooter type games
are supporting it because 21x9 monitors
are more mainstream but this aspect
ratio is still kind of rare and then
getting
three of them is dumb number two make
sure all of your monitors are the same
resolution and aspect ratio because that
caused headaches like we just have fewer
options because we have the setup that
we do
and number three is this worth it
this particular setup with these
monitors is this the good way to go i
don't think so because
first of all it's super expensive yes
it's more immersive but for the cost
like this is 4 500 worth of monitors
is it really that much more immersive
than just having i don't know one of
them they don't really have a very tight
curve that's an 1800 r curve one if you
had three monitors this aspect ratio
that had 1800 r curves then it would be
a tighter circle around you but hey if
it's all about dick measuring then this
gives you a huge dick
so
speaking of things that are awesome to
have in your life here's linus with a
sponsor spot skillshare is an online
learning community with thousands of
classes in design business technology
and more and their premium membership
gives you unlimited access to high
quality classes on must-know topics so
you can improve your skills unlock new
opportunities and do the work that you
love skillshare is more affordable than
most learning platforms out there with
an annual subscription costing less than
10 a month and the first 500 of you to
use the promo link in the description
will get your first two months for free
so go check it out now so thanks for
watching guys if this video sucked then
you can hit that button but if you liked
it like it get subscribed check out the
links in the description to where to buy
the stuff that we featured in this video
also down there is our merch store where
you can buy merch unlike anything i'm
wearing at all and check out our forum
which you should totally join